    -$- Challenges for today -$-
------------------------------------

What is ngnix.?
How to install ngnix.?
What is reverse proxy.?
what is routing ?
What is virtual host file.?
How to write virtual configuration with ngnix ?
What is server block configuration ?
How to write server block configuration?






What is NGINX ?

 NGINX (pronounced "engine-x") 
 is a popular open-source web server and reverse proxy server. It is known for its 
 high performance, scalability, and reliability, making it a popular choice for 
 serving static and dynamic web content, as well as for proxying requests to backend servers.

 In addition to its web serving capabilities, NGINX is often used as a reverse proxy server, 
 which allows it to route requests from clients to backend servers. This makes it useful for 
 load balancing, caching, and other advanced server configurations.

 NGINX is open-source software, which means that it is available for free and can be modified 
 and distributed by anyone. It is compatible with many operating systems, including Linux, Unix, 
 and Windows, and has a large and active community of developers who contribute to its ongoing 
 development and maintenance.


 How to install nginx ?
    sudo apt-update
    sudo apt-get install nginx
    
    installation was not done properly due to some errors 
     then i fixed : 
     sudo apt --fix-broken install 
     
     to install nginx :
     sudo apt-get install nginx
     sudo systemctl start nginx   -- to start the ngnix
     sudo systemctl status nginx  -- to get the status of the nginx

what is reverse proxy ?
    
    A reverse proxy is a server that sits between client devices and 
    one or more web servers, acting as an intermediary for client requests. 
    When a client makes a request to access a web resource, such as a website 
    or an application, the request is first sent to the reverse proxy server, 
    which then forwards the request to the appropriate web server. The reverse 
    proxy server also handles the response from the web server and sends it back 
    to the client.

    The primary benefit of using a reverse proxy is that it can improve performance, 
    scalability, and security of a web application. By acting as an intermediary, 
    it can cache frequently accessed content, distribute traffic across multiple 
    servers, and provide an additional layer of security by hiding the internal 
    structure of the web application.

    Reverse proxies are commonly used in large-scale web applications, content delivery 
    networks, and cloud infrastructure to manage and optimize traffic to web servers.

 What is routing ?

    Routing refers to the process of directing network traffic from one network node to another. 
    In computer networking, a router is a device that connects multiple networks and is responsible 
    for routing packets from one network to another.

    When a device on one network wants to communicate with a device on another network, 
    it sends the data in the form of packets to its default gateway, which is typically a router. 
    The router examines the packet's destination IP address and checks its routing table to determine 
    the best path to forward the packet to the next hop. This process is repeated at each hop until 
    the packet reaches its final destination.

    Routing is a critical function in computer networking as it enables devices 
    on different networks to communicate with each other. It also helps to 
    optimize the flow of network traffic and ensure that data is delivered 
    efficiently and reliably.

    In addition to routing between different networks, routing can also refer to 
    the process of directing traffic within a single network, such as a local area 
    network (LAN), using protocols such as the Routing Information Protocol (RIP) 
    or the Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) protocol.

What is virtualhost file ?

    A virtual host file, also known as a virtual host configuration file, is a file that 
    defines the settings for a virtual host on a web server. A virtual host is a method of 
    hosting multiple domain names on a single web server, allowing different websites to share 
    the same physical resources of the server.

    The virtual host file typically contains the configuration settings for the domain name 
    associated with the virtual host, including the server name, server alias, document root, 
    log files, and other settings that are specific to that domain.